# Inception | Session Highlights

## #1 Hello World App in React

hello-react
    |- index-1.html
    |- index-2.html
    |- index-3.html
    |- index-4.html
    |- readme.md

HTML only version, check index-1.html.
JavaScript only version, check index-2.html.
React only version, check index-3.html & check index-4.html.

---

## #2 React - Library or Framework? What is React?

React is "a JavaScript library for building user interfaces",
as mentioned on the official website [reactjs.org](https://reactjs.org/).

- React is a JavaScript library - one of the most popular ones
- React is not a framework (unlike Angular, which is more opinionated).
- React is an open-source project created by Facebook.
- React is used to build user interfaces (UI) on the front end.
- React is the view layer of an MVC application (Model View Controller)

There are two parts of the React library:
- [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html) - the React top level API
- [ReactDOM](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-dom.html) - adds DOM-specific methods

"React" & "ReactDOM" objects are available once React library is injected into our app.

---

## #3 Extensions Recommended in VS Code

- Bracket Pair Colorization Toggler
- Better Comments
- ES7+ React/Redux/React-Native snippets
- ESLint
- GitLens - Git supercharged
- Prettier - Code formatter
- Prettier ESLint
- Prettify JSON
- vscode-icons
- Emmet

---

## #4 Inject/integrate React into the app

Using CDN we can easily inject/integrate React into our application.
[React CDN](https://reactjs.org/docs/cdn-links.html)

---

## #5 Smallest React App

We start with bare minimum HTML document and
then once we integrate React into our application (via CDN),
this is the smallest React app.

Once React is injected/integrated into our app we have
"React" & "ReactDOM" objects available for use.
We can check them in the browser console.

---

## #6 React Element

The React element is an object.

---

## #7 Binding React

We can bind React to one or more parts of the application,
and execute it only for those elements.

Check index-4.html, see how React is bound to multiple elements of the page.

---

## #8 React Overrides Existing Content

When we create root element and render something inside it,
the existing content gets overriden.

Check index-4.html.

---

## #9 JSX Vs. React.createElement

JSX allows us to write markup very easily, its more like writing HTML.
JSX produces React “elements”.
JSX is compiled to JavaScript code.

[JSX](https://reactjs.org/docs/introducing-jsx.html)

It becomes very hard to write markup using plain JavaScript or say using
`React.createElement`.
The code quickly becomes clumsy, complex and non-maintainable when we write
markup this way.
JSX makes it more easier, since it resembles with HTML.
Markup written in JSX is easier to read and maintain.

---

# Homework/Assignment

1. What is Emmet?

2. What is CDN?

3. What is crossorigin?
```
    <script
        crossorigin
        src="https://unpkg.com/react@18/umd/react.development.js"
    ></script>
```

https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/crossorigin
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CORS

4. async Vs. defer

**defer**

Best Way to Load JavaScript

Import scripts in the "head" section with the "defer" attribute.

This ensures that scripts are loaded early but their execution is deferred.
- scripts are loaded before the HTML document is parsed
- scripts are executed only after the HTML document is parsed

By using "defer", browser guarantees order of script execution.
The scripts will be executed in the order they were imported.

For example,
```
  <script src="js/one.js" defer></script>
  <script src="js/two.js" defer></script>
  <script src="js/three.js" defer></script>
```

Here order of script execution will be
1. `one.js`
2. `two.js`
3. `three.js`

**async**

When your scripts don't interact with the page elements or say they don't 
depend on any page elements, we should load them early and then execute them
right away.

We can do this by using "async" attribute.

With "async" the script executes as early as possible, right away after it has been loaded.
It blocks HTML parsing and rendering.

It is suitable to execute stand-alone script that does not rely on your HTML content or any other scripts.

With "async" the order of script execution is not guaranteed.

For example,
```
  <script src="js/one.js" async></script>
  <script src="js/two.js" async></script>
  <script src="js/three.js" async></script>
```

Here order of script execution might be
1. `two.js` its downloaded first
2. `one.js` its downloaded second
3. `three.js` its downloaded third

"defer"/"async" are not available for inline scripts, they are for external/imported scripts only.

Refer
[async vs defer attributes in Javascript | Ola Interview Question](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IrHmpdORLu8)
[<script>: The Script element](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/script)

5. React Vs. ReactDOM

There are two parts of the React library:
- [React](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-api.html) - the React top level API
- [ReactDOM](https://reactjs.org/docs/react-dom.html) - adds DOM-specific methods

The react-dom package contains methods that are only supported for the web applications (which run in the browser DOM environment). They are not supported for React Native.
